## 2. Configure continuous deployment with Travis

Now that we have defined our Fastly service using Terraform locally, we want to be able to reliably reproduce the infrastruture configuration in a continuous integration environment and deploy our changes to the service every time we check the code into our version control, GitHub. To achieve this, we are going to use the open-source tool [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/).

Travis CI provides a hosted build environment and default set of steps to test, build and deploy artefacts. You can customise any step in this process in a `.travis.yml` file in the root of your repository. Travis uses the file to learn about your project and how you want your builds to be executed.

### 2.1 Setup Travis 
1. Sign in to [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/auth) with your GitHub account, accepting the GitHub [access permissions confirmation](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/github-oauth-scopes).

2. Once you’re signed in, Travis will synchronize your repositories from GitHub, go to your [profile](https://travis-ci.org/profile) page and enable Travis CI for your workshop repository `github.com/<USERNAME>/altitude-nyc-abcd-workshop`.

### 2.2 travis.yml configuration
Once Travis is configured and authorised for your repository we can add a `.travis.yml` file to tell Travis what actions we'd like it to perform whenever we change our configuration.

Create a file named `.travis.yml` within the root directory of our project and edit it using your text editor of choice:
```sh
$ touch .travis.yml
```

A build on Travis CI is made up of three steps, all of which can be customized using the the yaml declaration format inside our `.travis.yml` file:
1. `install:` any dependencies required
2. `script:` run the build script
3. `deploy:` deploy the artefacts

> _Note:_
> There are actually more than 3 steps including some optional ones. The complete build lifecycle and hooks and information on how to customize them further can be found [here](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/customizing-the-build#The-Build-Lifecycle).

Add the following steps to your `.travis.yml` file to customize the build: 

```yml
# We require the sudo command
sudo: required
# Cache the Terraform binary and our local state after each build
cache:
- directories:
  - "$TRAVIS_BUILD_DIR/.state"
  - "$HOME/terraform"
# Run make install command to fetch Terraform binary
install: make install
# Run Terraform plan
script: terraform plan -state=./.state ./terraform
```

### 2.3 Add, commit, push, and build
To get Travis to trigger our newly defined build in CI we need to add the changed files in our working directory and push them to GitHub. Travis will observe the change to our repository and automatically start a build to run our `install` and `script` commands defined in the `.travis.yml`

```sh
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m 'Testing Travis CI'
$ git push
```

Wait for Travis CI to run a build on your fork of the `altitude-nyc-abcd-workshop` repository. You can view the output and build status by navigating to: `https://travis-ci.org/<USERNAME>/altitude-nyc-abcd-workshop`

You should have see the output of our `terraform plan` in the job log tab:
```sh
TODO
```

### 2.4 Continuously deploy:
Now that we have Travis continuously integrating our changes whenever we push changes to our terraform configuration to GitHub, we can use the `deploy:` step inside `.travis.yml` to actually apply our changes to our Fastly service in production.

Add the following declaration the bottom of your `.travis.yml` file:

```yml
deploy:
# The deploy will be a simple script command
- provider: script
  # don't cleanup the build aretfacts before deployment
  skip_cleanup: true
  # run the terraform apply command
  script: terraform apply -state=./.state ./terraform
  # only run this deploy step when merging into master
  on:
    branch: master
```

The `script:` declaration is the command that Travis will execute when running the `deploy` step. Here we have simply ran our `terraform apply` command as per the last exercise. Note that we telling Terraform to persist the state to the cached `./state` directory:
```yml
  script: terraform apply -state=./.state ./terraform
```

As we only want to deploy the changes to our service once we are satisfied with them (such as tests passing in the `script` step) and they've been successfully peer reviewed by a colleague via a pull request, we can tell Travis to only deploy the changes on a merge into the `master` branch. This is achieved via the `on:` declaration of the deploy block:
```yml
  on:
    branch: master
```

To test our deployment we need to make a new branch of our repository and push our changes to the `.travis.yml` file.
```sh
$ git checkout -b deployment
$ git add -A
$ git commit -m 'Testing Travis CI deployment'
$ git push origin deployment
```

Raise a new pull request for the branch changes in GitHub and merge it:
```sh
TODO
```

If you jump over to travis-ci.com you should now be able to watch the build of the `master` branch with our newly added deployment step creating our Fastly service. 

### 2.5 Celebrate! 🎉
If your configuration was successfully applied via Travis CI you should be able to `curl` your newly created service:
```sh 
$ curl -v http://<YOUR SERVICE DOMAIN>.global.prod.fastly.net/index.html

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: public, max-age=3600
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 11651
Connection: keep-alive
X-Served-By: cache-lcy1136-LCY
X-Cache: HIT
X-Cache-Hits: 1
```
If you don't believe this you can even login to the Fastly web interface and look at your configuration.
